	   OOMD(JAN-2014)
	
	     PART-A

1(a).What is oject orientation? Explain briefly the stages involved in OO methodology.(10 Marks)

(b).Define the following terms with an example:

   i)Objects         ii)Classes
   iii)Class diagram  iv)Values and Attributes
   v)Operations and methods.(10 Marks)	

2a.What is an association end? What are the properties of an association end?(06 Marks)

b.With respect to multiple inheritence, briefly discuss about 
   i)Multiple Classification.
   ii)Metadata.(06 Marks)

c.Define state diagrams and state model.Draw the state diagram for telephone line with activities.(08 Marks)

3a.Explain aggregation concurrency within an object with an each example.(08 Marks)

b.Consider an online airline reservation system. You want to check airline website to give you ideas.

   i)List two actor.Explain relavance of each actor.
   ii)One use case is to make a flight reservation. List four additional use cases at the comparable level of abstraction. Summarise the purpose of each use case with a sentence.
   iii)Prepare a use diagram for an airline reservation system.(12 Marks)

4a.List and explain different stages in software development process.(10 Marks)

b.List the steps to constuct a domain state model. For an ATM bank system,prepare data dictionary for all modeling elements.(10 marks)

         	PART-B

5a.With a neat sequence diagram, explain process transaction scenario.(08 Marks)

b.Explain the steps followed in constructing application class model.(08 Marks)
 
c.What are the steps in designing a batch transformation?(04 Marks)

6a.What are the steps to improve organisation of class design?Explin.(08 Marks)

b.When fine tuning classes is essential? How is it achieved?(08 Marks)

c.Compare forward engineering and reverse engineering.(04 Marks)

7a.What is pattern? Explain briefly the properties of pattern for software architecture.(08 Marks)

b.Explain Forwarder-Receiver pattern briefly.(12 Marks)

8a.Explain view handler dsign pattern.(08 Marks)

b.Explain singleton design pattern that provides two idioms specific to small talk and C++.(06 Marks)

c.Write the steps to implement the counted pointer idiom.(06 Marks)  